# art_and_simulations# Particle Generator

This is a Processing sketch that generates and visualizes a field of particles on a canvas. These particles move across the canvas while leaving a trail, creating mesmerizing patterns. The particle motion is influenced by Perlin noise and can be customized with different textures and parameters.

## Getting Started

To run this sketch, you'll need to have the [Processing](https://processing.org/) environment installed on your computer.

1. **Install Processing:** If you haven't already, download and install Processing from [https://processing.org/download/](https://processing.org/download/).

2. **Clone the Repository:** Clone or download this GitHub repository to your computer.

3. **Open the Sketch:**
   - Launch Processing.
   - Open the "ParticleGenerator.pde" file from the cloned repository.

4. **Run the Sketch:** Press the "Run" button (a play icon) in the Processing editor to execute the sketch. You'll see the particle field generating on the canvas.

## Sketch Features

- **Particle Motion:** Particles move across the canvas, leaving trails with radius based on a sin wave, to be more visually pleasing.

- **Customizable Textures:** You can use your own images for the colors and noise by replacing the "space.png" and "selfie1.jpg" files with your desired images. These images are loaded at the beginning of the sketch and used to influence the particle motion.

- **Particle Quantity:** You can control the number of particles generated by modifying the cellRes, or the makeParticles() call, depending on which mode you are in.
- The modes aren't super clear-cut, I think I just comment out whichever lines I'm not using, but they let you swtich between types of noise, particle generation, etc.
- (The particles are spawned in a grid of resolution cellRes, so as to be evenly distributed.)
  
- **Wrapped Worley Noise:** If you choose to use worley noise (which is very cool, would reccomend), the noise wraps so you can make infinite textures! 
  
## Customization

Feel free to customize this sketch according to your preferences:

- **Particle Stroke:** Come up with your own style of stroke. Maybe it starts large and gets thinner, etc.

- **Textures:** Replace "space.png" and "selfie1.jpg" with your own images to create different visual effects.

- **Look:** Edit the various global variables and mess around with the commented lines to get different visual looks from the same program.

## Credits

@adorescoding / Ethan. (Guardian Gold in the coding train discord, you might find me frequenting #share there.) check out my insta @adorescoding for this and more!
